
## Python LANGUAGE
### hardwares basics
> It's highly recommended to watch [crash course computer science](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tpIctyqH29Q&list=PLH2l6uzC4UEW0s7-KewFLBC1D0l6XRfye) first.

> references: [instructions set](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/X86_instruction_listings#x86_integer_instructions)

hardwares:

- cpu retrives machine code sequence from ram and executes corresponbing instructions pre-determined by cpu producer(like intel,amd) in order.
- ram stores machine code sequence. Note that in the sequence,some are treated as instructions+target ram address,some are treated as pure numbers stored in target ram address.
- storage stores data permenantly 
- IOInterface don't know cpu instructions,so it needs driver to translate. this is why when you plugin a new mouse,usb,your computer will notify it's installing new driver.

Structure of memory/ram(value with an address) provides a key and unique feature--dynamically `JUMP`.It endues the ability to build layers of abstraction(wrap contexts).


### how program works
A sequence of code is loaded into ram, first ram address is 0x00000412 for example.

1. address 0x00000412
1. data in 0x00000412 is sent to cpu, the address 0x00000412 will be temporarily stored somewhere known by cpu.
1. cpu treats parts of the data as instruction and parts of it as target ram address
1. data in target ram address will be sent to cpu, cpu deals the data with the instruction before.
1. cpu reads address 0x00000412 and +1, get address 0x00000413
1. repeat process 1,2,3,4,5 till end or jump to another address





### build communication

Python is a LANGUAGE, it has basic elements and follows specific grammers.Only those who use these elements and follow these grammers might communicate to each
other otherwise it makes no sense to them. But there's also a role like translator that can translate one language into another.

CPU is the core where communication(do something to info,respond,transform) happens. Data flow in other hardwares, but nothing changed.
- In the basement level, hardwares communicate by `1`,`0` signals.
- In a slightly higher level, only `1`,`0` comibinitions in cpu instructions set can be understood and executed by CPU. so all data need to be translated into instructions
meaningful to cpu. 
- In a more advanced level, commands(like +,+=,//) are more human readable, each command is a package of multiple cpu instructions.When interpreter runs,commands
are translated into these cpu instructions.

EXP: pianest plays a sonata --> sequence of keys pressed --> piano responds(CPU) --> sequence of corresponding sound --> heared by pianest

EXP: a Germany fan wants to talk to a Japanese Director.They need a translator.
info(Germany)--> translator --> info(tranlated) -->Japanese Director reply(CPU) --> replyinfo(Japanese)--> translator-->replyinfo(Germany)

EXP: the first translator is written in machine code, it will be loaded in ram and translate data.
- 'python code'(in ram)--> translator(interpreter) --> CPU execute-->
- 'python code' in machine code(in ram) --> CPU execute -->
- 'python code result' in machine code(in ram) --> translater(interpreter)--> CPU execute-->
- 'python code result'(in ram) --> displayIO translator(in ram)--> CPU execute-->
- 'python code result'IO(in ram) --> 'python code result'(in displayIO)


### Context

> or `lexical scope`, or a more undestandable word `Condition`

Python is a LANGUAGE, pragmatics(context) endues its meaning.Context ensures meaning of pragma. Time(order) is base of context.

EXP: As time goes, context improves itself, it becomes more meaningful and more difficult to understand.

Each sentence gets meaning from the context before and will serve as part of context for the sentence after.
For the sentence `John climed down the mountian.`. 
Each senetence before it is its context.It becomes one context for each senetence after it.
The most related context for it is `John climed up the mountian.`

1. ...
1. John went mountain-climbing.
1. John climed up the mountian.
1. John was hungry.
2. John ate some food.
1. John climed down the mountian.
1. John went home.
1. John ate some food.
1. ...

EXP: What Mary says is triggered by what John said and vice versa. 
If John talks about another thing(build another context), the following context will be totally different(and unexpected)

- ...
- John: Mary, I saw on a dog on your desk.
- Mary: Oh,that's my dog Piper.
- Mary: He's very very smart.
- John: Really. Can he do any tricks?
- Mary: Yeah,when I point to him with my finger and say Bang, he will fell and pretends to be dead.
- John: Wow, can I have a try?
- Mary: Sure. You may also try to pet a dog.
- John: That might be a good idea.
- John: Oh my god! He's peeing on the desk.
- Mary: What? 
- ...



In programming, with only a whole context,all variables need to be named differently,which is impossible for big programs produced
by many people. So the whole context will be split into multiple small contexts.
But be careful, multiple context causes confusion or ambiguity if you don't know the context or contexts are mixed together.


EXP: With specific context, what happened is more clear.
 
- John killed Mary without context is ambiguous.
- Context 1,John killed Mary in game.
- Context 2,John killed Mary in reality.
- Context 3,John killed Mary in a novel.



EXP: In this mixed context(Context 3), which Cargo John fed is ambiguous.
 
- Context 1, John has a dog named Cargo.
- Context 2, Mary has a dog named Cargo.
- Context 3,One day John took Cargo to Mary's house. Then John fed Cargo. 


EXP: for d, the context before does not matter. for f, the context d and e forms does not matter

- a = 5
- b = a + 4
- c = b + 3
- d = 10
- e = a + d
- f = c + 7

We might split contexts. The order of context1 and context2 does not matter, but context3 must be after them.

context1
- a = 5
- b = a + 4
- c = b + 3
- f = c + 7

context2
- d = 10

context3
- e = a + d



class,function,namespace are ways to split contexts.

### grammer basis: Algebra

> Each varname binds to a value. Varname stands for its identity in the context. Memery address is unique and will not repeat, so every variable is dispatched an address.

In a context, values can be equal, but varnames need to be unique. With two John·Austin in the office, you can't distinguish with only their names.



### write,not just think or watch

> The shadow of a man can never stand up and walk on its own.I was my brother's shadow.Now that I have lost him...I don't know what to do. --from Kagemusha(It's highly recommended to watch the movie.) 

> In stories, things turn out the way the author wants.And in real life,they don't always...I'd make a mistake and never realize it till I find everybody looking at me.  --from Dial M for Murder

- With only thinking, you can never be wrong.But actually you ignore so many details(or you can say contexts).`context 1` is not connected to `context 2` directly, you need `context 1.1,1.2,1.3` to connect them.You will not find what is needed unless you really do that.
- With writing the whole program, you miss much less details. You get feeling for the whole context. Detail shows itself naturally.
- With only thinking,you are seperating yourself from the world.
- With writing,you can be wrong.Human learn by comparing.Fails are more impressive. These contexts of fails are basis of the context of success.
- With thinking and writing, you learn quicker and understand better.


EXP:

A professional painter knows how each stroke contributes to the final painting.
The painting strays by bad strokes. Experienced painter could tell whether it's good or bad for the painting. 
Bad strokes need to be overlaid by good ones.
These little strokes(including the hidden bad strokes) connect together and build the painting.

The base context of the painting is the painter and his expection.
He has a rough idea about the target. He takes great effort and gradually fill gaps between contexts.

You have no exceptin of fails,you lose possibility of recognizing what the integrate image could be.

EXP:

Even though a farmer tells and shows you every step about farming.
Even though you sow seeds, take effort to follow every step the farmer showed.
You can only wait and hope that these seeds could spring up and bear ears.
Even though the farmer tells and shows you a million times.
Because what you do forms you rather than what you spectate.
That's why only after farming for many times by yourself, You can expect what would happen with more certainty.
 

You see the result, but not the process.The result is achieved from the process, and it can't be reversed.

Soul and body(the world) form an integrate man. If you're only a spectator,
no connection is built between you and the world.
Always being a shadow, never becoming a man.
With thinking and writing, you blend into the world and become part of the world.


Things remote to each other are related in the world.
You won't see the relationship unless you're related to them.


