## why difficult to learn

Programs are built upon these fundaments introduced before. 
But you usually can't sense them.
Even though you can sense them, you still find it difficult to learn OS, python, django, elastic,etc.

### the key concept: Recursion

1. The cpu instruction `JUMP` makes it so easy to achieve `recursion`.
1. Recursion makes it so easy to wrap elements(especially for virtual elements) layer by layer. 
1. Regardless of hardware limit(considering time and spece), this wrapping process is unlimited.

And it caused the current situation.

> [Jonathan Blow on Software Quality at the CSUA 2](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FvBySbGueww)

- Too many layers of capsulation. 
- High level abstraction.
- Too many people are contributing to opensource projects without communication.
- Learning each new thing takes time. But opensource software update so frequently.
- You will not know which part goes wrong(no error reporting, but program runs slow)

Have a look at how it can be a disaster in [Java call stack](https:--ptrthomas.wordpress.com-2006-06-06-java-call-stack-from-http-upto-jdbc-as-a-picture-)


It's very interesting that when we talk about advanced-high-end knowledge of python, we are actually talking about lower level implementation of python.


Iceberg analogy is good, but I'd more like to dramatically describe as below.

											[top]						
	[------------------------------------intermediate------------------------------------]
		[--------------------------------intermediate--------------------------------]
			[----------------------------intermediate----------------------------]
				[------------------------intermediate------------------------]
											...
				[------------------------intermediate--------------------]
			[----------------------------intermediate----------------------------]
				[------------------------intermediate------------------------]
					[------intermediate-----]  [-------intermediate------]
							([low]  [low]  [low]  [low]  [low])

- `top` is highly abstract and specially designed human readable interface extracted.
- `intermediate` is mixed layers that you can't tell apart. the `-`,`-` signs shows how heavily this layer is wrapped.
- `low` is the basis level.

EXP: There's a huge gap/mutation between these levels.

- Top level is like sea surface, exposed. We can see fish swimming and catch them on the surface.
- Intermediate level is like the deep ocean.You'll get lost as soon as you dive into it.
- Low level is like seabed, hidden deeply and almost never touched or checked by anyone.

Although top level with good document makes itself easier to understand.
Although top level is quite small comparing to intermediate level.
It's still composed of numerous amount of commands that can be seperated into two parts.
`some commands we frequently use in our daily` and `most commands we never touched`.

- For those most commands we almost never touched.
	- These's usually little document description. Only a few examples can be found on the internet.
	- You wanna dig a bit deepper and modify it? No way. Maybe only the developer of will know for what condition these commands are created.
- For those commands we frequently use in our daily
	- These's good document description. Many examples can be found on the internet.
	- You can dig a bit deeper than top level because you have used it in different situations, and there's still enough resource can be found.
	- But you wanna dig more? No way. Even the developer would not know what the intermediate things are made for.

Though pros says `don't rebuild wheels`. 
But what should I do if the wheel is broken somewhere. Of course I have to fix some part. 
what should I do if I want the wheel going less zigzag. Of course I have to Improve some part. 
How am I able to do these if I always stay comfortably in the car and believe the wheel will always work well and work for me.


### what to do

- logical rules
	- don't think about some universal program, focus on concrete affairs.
	- don't create too many intermediate layers.
- implementation rules
	- single inheritance
	- class hierarchies is like 2-3 levels deep.
	- test low-level.